# Kaggle-Google-Apps-Store-Analysis-Visualization

  The Google Play Store Apps dataset consists of 2.3+ million records of Android applications that were available on the Google Play Store. The data was collected in the month of June 2021 by Gautham Prakash and Jithin Koshy with the help of Python script (Scrapy) running on a cloud virtual machine instance. We picked this dataset because the data holds a lot of numerical data that can be easily analyzed and manipulated, and the data is properly formatted in terms of dates and field values, and we wanted to spend more time doing analysis rather than cleaning the data, therefore this dataset was perfect for us. The file contains more than 600,000 applications with 24 different attributes, such as:  “App Name”, “App Id”, “Category”, “Rating”, “Rating Count”, “Installs”, “Minimum Installs”, “Maximum Installs”, “Free”, “Price”, “Currency”, “Size”, “Minimum Android”, “Developer Id”, “Developer Website”, “Developer Email”, “Released”, “Privacy Policy”, “Last Updated”, “Content Rating”, “Ad Supported”, “In App Purchases”, “Editor Choice”, and “Scrapped Time”. For the final project, our team focused on the app's name, category, rating, price, release date, and installs. To clean the data, we checked for NaN values and removed them. We also removed the columns that we weren’t analyzing including “App Id”, “Minimum Android”, “Developer Id”, “Developer Website”, “Developer Email”, “Privacy Policy”, “Ad Supported”, “In App Purchases”, and “Editor Choice”. After the data has been cleaned, we used the remaining columns to create two data frames: free apps and paid apps. This step allowed us to compare the average ratings of free and paid apps based on different categories. We found most paid apps had higher ratings.

  For the statistical analyses, we wanted to look for any outliers and calculate what the threshold was while focusing on the price and rating columns; furthermore we wanted to calculate the standard deviation and the mean of the price column for all paid apps. After that, we assigned a z-score for each row to determine if an app has a z-score that is greater than 4 standard deviations. The apps that meet this criteria were considered outliers and were removed from the dataset. We then created two horizontal bar charts. First, we illustrated the average app prices between each category incorporating groupby, mean, and sort functions. We found that the two highest average app prices come from the medical and business categories. The second bar chart displays the number of installed apps in each category utilizing a for loop to loop through the cleaned dataset on “App Name”, “Category”, and “Maximum Installs” columns to identify the category that has the highest number of installs.  We applied a max function in the for loop to perform an iteration for each row grouping by category. We calculated a division by one million for each row in the “Maximum Installs” column using million as a unit so that the dataset is more comprehensible. Then, we implemented a sort function to organize from highest to lowest installs. From this analysis, we found that the highest install category is “Tools – Google Play service” with more than 12000+ million installs while the lowest is “Events – Ticketmaster” with only 14+ million installs.
 
  These insights can help stock analysts who are looking to invest in companies based on their app downloads, to determine any correlation to a company's annual revenue, ad campaign, and more. Also, to help android users determine which app category has the most or least amount of installs and apps with good ratings with reasonable price tag. There are several ideas to expand the analysis of our project. We could further analyze how each app category compares to one another, which app categories hold the most success in attracting users, providing weighted rating information and further analysis on app purchase information.
